feat: updated docs for affiliate brokers (#487)
chainflip-io/chainflip-docs: pages/swapping/integrations/running-a-broker/broker-affiliates.mdx

---

title: Affiliates

description: Affiliates is a feature which allows brokers to share commission.

---

import { Callout } from "@/components";

# Affiliates

<Callout type="info">From version 1.8, the way Affiliates work has changed. If you currently manage any Affilate relationships, please read this page carefully. Legacy-style Affiliate account will continue to work but should be considered deprecated. Existing Affiliates can still withdraw earnings as before using the regular [asset withdrawal API](broker-api#broker_withdraw_fees). Nonetheless, we recommend migrating existing Affiliate accounts to the new fully-delegated account type.</Callout>

## Terminology

To begin with, let's define the following terms to be on the same page when talking about Affiliates:

> - **Broker**: A Chainflip account registered as a Broker.
> - **Affiliate**: A Chainflip account derived from a Broker account and managed by this particular Broker account that is not able to directly interact with the Chainflip state-chain.
> - **Fully-Delegated**: Legacy-style Affiliate accounts were partially delegated: An Affiliate could request that a broker open channels on its behalf, but was still required to create and register their own account in order to withdraw any earnings. New-style Affiliate accounts are *fully-delegated*, meaning Affiliates can now delegate all of the functionality to the Broker and no longer need to interact with the Chainflip network directly.
> - **Beneficiary**: A Chainflip account that receives a share of a commission.

Reviewer: I think 2. and 3. are a bit confusing. By reading at the description, i can't really see much different between those two. 

I suggest the following:

```suggestion
- **Broker**: A Chainflip account registered as a Broker.
- **Affiliate**: These accounts are partially delegated - the affiliate could request that a **Broker** opens channels on its behalf, but is still required to create and register their own account in order to withdraw any earnings. **This type of affiliate becomes deprecated in 1.8**.
- **Fully-Delegated Affiliate**: These affiliate accounts are *fully-delegated* - the affiliate can now delegate all of the functionality to the **Broker** and no longer need to interact with the Chainflip network directly.
- **Beneficiary**: A Chainflip account that receives a share of a commission.
```

Reviewer 2: Makes sense - will adjust it a littke: I wanted to avoid referring to the 'old' way too much ("no longer have to do X") since whoever reads this will not necessarily have that context.

Reviewer 2: Updated your comment directly (weird that I can do that 😅 )

    }' \
https://mainnet-rpc.chainflip.io

{"jsonrpc":"2.0","result":[["cFNGCP7MUJCbRyktHizaYnEekiTAPp1Sgopsbt99FNWc6Q1LU",{"short_id":0,"withdrawal_address":"0xe646ff46ce321cf9259caa01bcc71b54a333732c"}]],"id":1}
```

Alternatively, the Affiliate can check a via a public block explorer such as [polkadot.js.org](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Fmainnet-archive.chainflip.io#/explorer). Navigate to to `Developer > Chain State` and under `selected state query` choose `swapping > affilateAccountDetails`. Enter the Broker's and Affiliate's Account IDs and submit. The returned data will contain the associated withdrawal address.

## How Commission Works

When submitting a request to open a Swap Deposit Channel, or when building a [Vault Swap](swapping/integrations/advanced/vault-swaps) payload, a Broker can specify a list of additional *Beneficiaries*, each with their own commission rate. When a swap is executed via a Deposit Channel, the broker and each beneficiary will earn the rates specified when the channel was opened. In the case of Vault Swaps, the commission rates are encoded directly in the vault payload. 

<Callout type="info">

> A Beneficiary can also be another Broker.

Reviewer 3: i think this is not true for vault swaps, right?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For deposit channels **only**, the Beneficiary can also be another Broker.
```
